---
title: "Savvy or Savage? How Worldviews Shape Appraisals of Antagonistic Leaders"
date: 2025-12-03
categories: [New Variable]
tags: [Antagonism, Competitive jungle world view, Folk theories]
paper_info:
  authors: "Christine Q. Nguyen.et.al"
  venue: "Journal of Personality and Social Psychology"
  year: 2025
  link: "https://doi.org/10.1037/pspa0000456"
---

## Individual who see the social world as a competitive jungle (i.e., high CWV) have more positive views of the competence and leadership of antagonistic individuals than those who see the social world as cooperative and benign (i.e., low CWV). 

## Research Background

How antagonism–affiliation spectrum affect other social judgments (i.e., general competence and leadership effectiveness in workplace). **Mixed result**: perceptions of antagonism is *unrelated*, negatively related (*antagonism penalty*), or positively related (*antagonism advantage*, i.e., “evil genius hypothesis”) to perceived competence.

This research introduces a novel moderator.

## Theory Clarification

<span style="color: red; font-weight: bold">Antagonism</span>: behaviors and people variously seen as mean, tough, forceful,
coercive, intimidating, aggressive, and disagreeable. On the other end are acts and individuals seen as affiliative, kind, agreeable, nice,
communal, and tender-minded.

Conceptualizing it as coercive, harsh, intimidating behavior enacted in an attempt to advance some instrumental goal. Antagonistic individuals deal forcefully with others
to get their desired outcomes. Affiliation, on the other hand, to refer to behaviors that are warm, communal, friendly, and sympathetic.


## Findings

We propose that those who see the social world
as a “competitive jungle” tend to attach greater value to antagonism,
responding with heightened tolerance or even appreciation for
leaders who show it. Those who see the world as collaborative and
caring, on the other hand, may often view antagonistic leaders as
hopelessly misguided and ineffective.

## 我的思考

读完后的个人理解。
